Blog post: Introducing the BJDS (#1363)
o3de/o3de.org: content/blog/posts/o3de-introducing-design-system.md

So to further ensure that the editor upheld these high quality of these standards, we developed some tenets that contributors should follow:

![Diagram showing the tenets of the O3DE design system](/images/blog/intro-to-bjds/tenets-diagram.jpg)

* **Efficiency:** User interactions and workflows should value efficiency and ease of use.
* **Accessibility:** Accessibility options, such as color contrasts, fonts and icon legibility, interactions and scalability etc. are built into our the tool from the first step.
* **Familiarity:** Align to our standards of the visual interfaces, tools, branding, and UI elements. No need to reinvent the wheel and confuse users.
* **Modularity:** The key to each element of O3DE, including the interface design and component development.

These tenets were formed to be straightforward and easy to remember. We want to ensure that the BJDS tenets are flexible for the community to embrace, and to employ through their contributions to the engine.

### What's included in the BlueJay Design System

> **The BlueJay Design System** is made up of a set of standardized components and layouts to help accelerate the creation of new workflows for the editor. It also has [supporting documentation](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/) on the O3DE Learn website, which details the following:

Reviewer: - To be clear on terminology between blog posts and O3DE docs, use "O3DE Editor" for first appearance, then "Editor" for subsequent appearances. If you're referring to the many editors in O3DE, then you can say  "editors". 
```suggestion
**The BlueJay Design System** is made up of a set of standardized components and layouts to help accelerate the creation of new workflows in the Editor. It also has [supporting documentation](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/) on the O3DE Learn website, which details the following:
```

#### UI Components

> UI components are the various individual widgets that make up the editor experience. The BJDS documentation outlines details like visual markup properties, rules around how to use them and guides when to use them in which scenario. Currently, with [20 UI components](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/) detailed (and more coming), these include code samples and API references to integrate into your editor extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UI components are the various individual widgets that make up the editor experience. The BJDS documentation outlines details like visual markup properties, rules about how to use them, and guides about when to use them and in which scenario. Currently, with [20 UI components](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/) detailed (and more coming), these documentation include code samples and API references to integrate into your editor extension.
```

If you are looking for information on key building blocks that O3DE uses, [UI Components](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/) is the right place to read. It's the systematic reuse of these components that make up the visual and functional consistency across O3DE.

![Preview @mdash; for the O3DE UI component guidelines](/images/blog/intro-to-bjds/ui-components-preview.jpg)

#### UX Patterns

> UX Patterns are a series of best practice solutions that a designer or developer should follow when creating new workflows and components in the editor. Unlike UI Components, where it's mostly about the visual aesthetics and how it mechanically operates, UX Patterns is more about how a user interacts and behaves for a task with a goal in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UX Patterns are a series of best practice solutions that a designer or developer should follow when creating new workflows and components in the Editor. Unlike UI Components, which is mostly about the visual aesthetics and how it mechanically operates, UX Patterns is more about how a user interacts and behaves for a task with a goal in mind.
```

> For e.g., the anatomy of a component card and it's different types can be found on the [UI Component > Card page](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/uidev-card-component/), while the what contents go in the card, how a user interacts with it and how O3DE interacts with the card itself can be found on the [UX Patterns > Component Card UX Patterns](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/ux-patterns/component-card/overview/) page.

Reviewer: - Consider splitting the sentence since it's a bit long. 
- Fixed the link. 

```suggestion
For example, the anatomy of a component card and it's different types can be found in the [UI Component > Card](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/uidev-card-widget/) page. What contents go in the card, how a user interacts with it and how O3DE interacts with the card itself can be found in the [UX Patterns > Component Card UX Patterns](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/ux-patterns/component-card/overview/) page.
```

![Preview image for the O3DE component card guidelines](/images/blog/intro-to-bjds/componentcard-ux-preview.jpg)

> Currently we have two UX Pattern pages on O3DE Learn: Component Card Properties and Writing UI Message guidelines. We plan to roll out more pages in the future coming months, so stay tuned.

Reviewer: Along with the image above, the UX Pattern pages your referring to seems to point at "Component Card > Overview" and "Component Card > Writing Guidelines". But I'm guessing in the image, you're referring to the "Component Card" and the "Error Handling" in the left-hand TOC. 

I think you can clarify which pages you mean by adjusting the titles you list here. 

```suggestion
Currently we have two UX Pattern pages on O3DE Learn: Component Card and UI Messages for Error Handling. We plan to roll out more pages in the coming months, so stay tuned.
```

#### O3DE Branding Guidelines

> Our [brand guidelines section](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/branding-guidelines/) includes information on how to apply the O3DE brand, and downloadable assets such as; a PDF style guide, logos files and fonts etc. These pages are especially important if you are looking to represent the O3DE logo in your product or marketing website. 

Reviewer: You only need a comma when you're separating two independent clauses, so I removed it before "and downloadable assets..."

```suggestion
Our [brand guidelines section](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/branding-guidelines/) includes information on how to apply the O3DE brand and downloadable assets such as a PDF style guide, logos files, fonts and so on. These pages are especially important if you are looking to represent the O3DE logo in your product or marketing website. 
```

![Preview image for the O3DE branding guidelines](/images/blog/intro-to-bjds/branding-guidelines-preview.jpg)

> If there's an asset that's missing that you're looking for, don't hesitate to [file a ticket](https://github.com/o3de/sig-ui-ux/issues/new/choose) and the community will help get the right asset you need. We are always happy to help!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there's a missing asset that you're looking for, don't hesitate to [file a ticket](https://github.com/o3de/sig-ui-ux/issues/new/choose) and the community will help get the right asset you need. We are always happy to help!
```

### BlueJay Design System's Roadmap

> ![Diagram showing the tenets of the O3DE design system](/images/blog/intro-to-bjds/roadmap2.jpg)

Reviewer 2: Please update this roadmap image to this one:
![roadmap3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/82846749/152262651-b2af52d8-4ee0-44f0-9057-3787f2d7f415.jpg)

> Above is our planned roadmap for 2021–2022. These timeframes are estimates based off our current SIG-UI-UX contributions rate. Times may vary; if we are able to gather more community support and help, items could be completed even sooner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Above is our planned roadmap for 2021–2022. These timeframes are estimates based off of our current SIG-UI-UX contributions rate. Times may vary; if we are able to gather more community support and help, items could be completed even sooner.
```

> For a full detailed breakdown on our roadmap, you can read our article here.

Reviewer: Also, don't forget to add a link to your article :)

```suggestion
For a full detailed breakdown of our roadmap, you can read our article here.
```

> For a full detailed breakdown on our roadmap, you can read our article here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a full detailed breakdown on our roadmap, you can read it [here](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/projects/8).
```

#### Looking Forward

> The next steps for BJDS involve planning out resources and commitments towards achieving these goals. As Phase 2 comes to a close soon, Phase 3 is will be achievable with the help of the SIG-UI-UX community effort as a whole. As a core contributor towards this design system, I will be looking to help kick start some of these new pages to get the ball going. 

Reviewer: - "kick start" and "get the ball going" is redundant. I suggested one option below: "I am looking to help kick-start some of these new pages." Another option can be "I'm looking to help some of these new pages to get the ball going". 
```suggestion
The next steps for BJDS involve planning out resources and commitments towards achieving these goals. As Phase 2 comes to a close soon, Phase 3 will be achievable with the help of the SIG-UI-UX community effort. As a core contributor towards this design system, I am looking to help kick-start some of these new pages. 
```

> If you would like to help contribute towards the efforts here—by reviewing, writing or letting us know to remind you when we want some feedback—let us know on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/o3de)! All the extra eyes and hands are a massive help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to help contribute towards the efforts here—by reviewing, writing or letting us know to remind you when we want some feedback—let us know in the #sig-ui-ux channel on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/o3de)! All the extra eyes and hands are a massive help.
```

> You can see here that the BJDS has big dreams and ambitions. As a core, it's just a design system for an open source 3D Engine. But as an end goal, we want this to be much more than that. 

Reviewer: If you're speaking generally about an "open-source, 3D engine", then use the adjective form ("open-source") with a hypen, and add a comma between the two adjectives. If you're talking about "Open 3D Engine", capitalize the whole thing. 

```suggestion
You can see here that the BJDS has big dreams and ambitions. At its core, it's just a design system for an open-source, 3D engine. But as an end goal, we want this to be much more than that. 
```

> **We want BlueJay to become the best design system that all 3D engines can also refer to in setting the quality benchmark for industry standards.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We want BlueJay to become the best design system that all 3D engines can depend on to set the quality benchmark for industry standards.**
```
